More questions that are open ended, more of an art class than technical 
Unity and C#
Tests are giant canvas quizzes: multiple, open: open note book don't have to come to class. Won't be simple regurgatation questions
	more analytical, compare contrast ideas, 
	48hr period to take it. Have about 2hrs then test closes and submits
Reference where things came from 


Ch.1 
*Game Definitions: 
1. voluntary attempt to overcome unneccessary obstacles
	Ex. D&D
2. Series of interesting decisions
	Interesting: multiple valid options, each option has pos and neg potential, outcomes are predictable but not guaranteed
		relies on human capacity for prediction 
			ex tik-tac-toe predictable
			brick breaker is interesting because you can broadly predict but not for sure 
		depending on how good you are at prediction determines if its a game or not
	interacting with AI may be a game because it may be interesting to see how it interacts
3. more based on tabletop: closed formal system that engages players in a structured confilic and resolves its uncertainty in an unequal outcome
	formal elements: rules, procedures, resources, outcomes, boundaries, objectives
	solves  many problems with def 1. 
	the uncertainty is can I create whats in my head with what I've got 
4. problem solving activity approached with a playful attitude
	Lusory attitude: wanting to do something for fun, 
		Ex. Golf, serious attitude would be to just put the ball in the hole yourself not using clubs or counting strokes 
	lusory behavior in a game is directly in the game, you can't solve it by a serious attitude
		modality: how you play the game, Ex. Controller 
	Playful attitude: is subjective, 
		playing to simply rank up (league) even though you're having a bad time mimics more def 1 and 2. 
	Don't like def, because if you stop having fun its no longer a game
5. system of rules in which agents compete by making ambiguous, endogenously meanginful decisions 
	Endogenously meanginful: has a noticeable effect on the game state
		Ex. Playing a card in like Magic, or Yu-gi-oh
		some games will reset progress in order to regain health, mana, etc
			Ex. Pokemon: healing the consequences of fighting get wipe away
	a race could be a game by this, as long as two people are present and are making decisions
Def important because you need to know the domain and range of our deductions
	Domain: what we're allowed to look at 
	Range: where you can apply those deductions
	You can find commonalities among the definitions 
		Humans desire structured conflict, experience of different situtations, excitement 
	People want the illusion of failure
	Audiences expect fun, mental stimulation, escapism 
	
*Iteration and Modifying the rules
Game design is an iterative process because there are a lot of things that need audience feedback in order to make fixes 
Can't predict how players will react, parts they feel most engaged with, strategies formed, what might be discovered 
1. Level of difficulty
	Skill floor/ceiling: how little skill you need/neccessary, want it low so people can start making informed decisions
		Ceiling: depth, Ex. having higher lvl monsters that take more to beat up. 
	Want a smooth natural rise as people get better at the game 
	understand the metagame: game above the game, how do you do well given tools and optimal play
		Ex. certain items having better drop rates/higher power
			Pokemon types
	Stealth Games: see the height of skill play involing really weird strategies, Ex. standing on npcs
2. Game based on strategy or chance, which is healthier for the experience
	randomness fun or dreaded, does it hinder strategies and do you want that; how you can compress the skill floor/ceiling gap 
	is gameplay interesting for players with varying degrees of luck 
3. Does the game have interesting meaningful decisions
	does the player have to manually alter the game state, can they take risks and how well do the understand the risk, does the game play itself/optimal strategy that restricts actions to one path if they wanna win
		Standing somewhere where enemies can't see you (cheezing) 
		Typically want to remove because players will optimize the fun out the game 
4. is the game interesting when its not the players turn 
	when is player interaction the lowest, how long is that period of time and whats the purpose 
	complexity added if inactive could interact with active 
	how vigilant do players have to be when its not their turn, when can they relax
	Ex Magic vs Hearthstone: Magic lets you react to other player's actions vs not being able to interact at all 
		Always being aware of the game vs relaxing 
		being online vs offline 
5 step process: identify diff between game now and what you want
	make small changes to the rules that will reach what you want
	playtest with new rules
	analyze new game 
	
Change only one thing between each playtest, required playtest time is proportional to size of change made
Changing numbers and changing rules can both radically alter the experience
Need to envision a fun experience and work with players to reach it 

Chapter 2: Frameworks
Ways of breaking down games to make them good on their own 
MDA: 
Mechanics: data level constructs
	presentation, constraints and limitations, systems and rules, technology 
Dynamics: runtime interactions between mechanics and players, the go between of the game data and the feelings the player is having
	Ex. moment to moment happenings, semi-predictable 
Aesthics: personal experience/feelings
	more artistic goals, most difficult goal
Players encounter them in reverse order to designers
FDD: 
Formal: boundaries that differentitate games from other media
	technical environment you have to play in
	hitting buttons what actually happens, resources,
	Ex. Removing outcome makes it more simulation
Dynamic: ONLY exist when game is being played 
	emergent play: play that belongs specifically to player
	emergent narrative: 
	playtest: only way to understand dynamics, something you could only catch during playtime like a voice line being played too quickly 
Dramatic: the fictional elements, the story, premise: core diff in our world and game
	explicit or implicit story: have to figure it out vs being given it
	
MDA vs FDD
Playtest framework vs academic: removed aesthics in FDD can analyze a game and give it to someone else and they can analyze it without experiencing the same things as you 
Broad/descripted classification vs specific/enumerated: 
Emphasis on players vs emphasis on content: MDA more subjective to personal experience

Elemental Tetrad: Basic form
Union of FDD and MDA: 
Mechanics 
Story
Tech 
Aesthic: things perceived by the player's senses while they are playing the game, sensory input, controller vibrating 
then order by visibility to the player. Helps figure out subjective vs objective parts

Analysis frameworks: 
FDD doesn't talk about emotions of player, MDA 
Many topics are shared between frameworks which leads to some shared vocabulary 
 

